README.md, before:

# Interchain Token Service

## Introduction

This repo will provide an implementation for an Interchain Token Service and an Interchain Token using it. The interchain token service is meant to allow users/developers to easily create their own token bridge. All the underlying cross-chain communication is done by the service, and the deployer can either use `StandardizedTokens` that the service provides, or their own implementations. There are quite a few different possible configurations for bridges, and any user of any deployed bridge needs to trust the deployer of said bridge, much like any user of a token needs to trust the admin of said token. We plan to eventually remove upgradability from the service to make this protocol more trustworthy. Please reference the [design description](./DESIGN.md) for more details on the design. Please look at the [docs](./docs/index.md) for more details on the contracts.

## Build

To build and run tests, do the following

```bash
npm ci

npm run build

npm run test
```

Commit message:

fix: cleanup various configs (#73)
* update flatten script

* update docs

* simplify coverage cmd

* prettier

* update README

* fix interface

* fix deps

* update eslint

* update gh action

* add custom hardhat networks

README.md, after:

# Interchain Token Service

## Introduction

This repo will provide an implementation for an Interchain Token Service and an Interchain Token using it. The interchain token service is meant to allow users/developers to easily create their own token bridge. All the underlying cross-chain communication is done by the service, and the deployer can either use a `StandardizedToken` that the service provides, or their own implementations. There are quite a few different possible configurations for bridges, and any user of any deployed bridge needs to trust the deployer of said bridge, much like any user of a token needs to trust the admin of said token. We plan to eventually remove upgradability from the service to make this protocol more trustworthy. Please reference the [design description](./DESIGN.md) for more details on the design. Please look at the [docs](./docs/index.md) for more details on the contracts.

## Build

To build and run tests, do the following

```bash
npm ci

npm run build

npm run test

npm run coverage  # Generate unit test coverage report, ./coverage/index.html
```
