contracts/hedera/README.md, before:

# Hedera ITS Support

## Overview

ITS contracts in this repo are modified to support Hedera Token Service. All new Interchain Token will be created via HTS, while existing HTS and ERC20 tokens are supported for registration.

New HTS Interchain Tokens will have their Token Manager as the sole Supply Key ("MinterBurner" equivalent in Hedera) and Treasury (the contract that gets the newly minted coins). After minting, the Treasury transfers the tokens to the designated account. Before burning, the tokens are transfered back to the Treasury. Token Managers use typical `allowance` and `transferFrom` to move tokens before burning. Token Manager keeps track of minters and allows for external minting and burning (see `Minter.sol`). Certain ITS features are not supported due to HTS limitations, such as deploying a new Interchain Token with initial supply.

Since the `createFungibleToken` precompile in Hedera requires a fee to be sent as value, an `WHBAR` contract (`WETH` equivalent) is used to hold the HBAR used for token creation. `InterchainTokenService` transfers certain amount of `WHBAR` to the newly deploying `TokenManagerProxy` contract. The `TokenManagerProxy` contract, during constructor, withdraws HBAR from `WHBAR`, and sends it to `InterchainTokenDeployer`, which finally uses it to pay for the token creation.

The responsibility of keeping ITS funded on the WHBAR contract lies with the deployer, it is assumed that a top-up mechanism is in place to ensure the contract has enough WHBAR to create new tokens.

![Deploy New Interchain Token Flow](./diagrams/deploy_interchain_token.png)

### Hedera-related Notes

- Hedera contract and token "rent" and "expiry" are disabled on Hedera and not supported in this implementation.
- `IERC20` standard methods are supported, including `allowance` and `approve`. See [hip-218](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-218) and [hip-376](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-376). `mint` and `burn` are not supported.
- Unlike an EVM token, the [maximum supply for an HTS token is 2^63](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/token-service/define-a-token#token-properties). There's planned support for decimal translation in ITS.
- HTS tokens with the following keys are not supported by ITS: `kycKey`, `wipeKey`, `freezeKey`, `pauseKey`. `adminKey` can update existing keys, but cannot add new keys if they were not set during the creation of the token ([see here](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/token-service/update-a-token)).
- `HTS.sol` library is a subset of the Hedera provided system library [HederaTokenService](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-smart-contracts/blob/bc3a549c0ca062c51b0045fd1916fdaa0558a360/contracts/system-contracts/hedera-token-service/HederaTokenService.sol). Functions are modified to revert instead of returning response codes.
- Currently new tokens created via HTS EVM system contract can have **only one** Supply Key (Minter).
- Currently new tokens created via HTS EVM system contract must have the Treasury be the creator of the token.
- `createFungibleToken` in `HTS.sol` uses `msg.value` to pay for token creation, alongside regular gas fee.
- `WHBAR` contracts used can be found [here](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/core-concepts/smart-contracts/wrapped-hbar-whbar#contract-deployments).

### ITS-related Notes

- `MINT_BURN` and `MINT_BURN_FROM` Token Manager types are currently unsupported, due to missing support of transferring the Treasury role. If this gets supported in the future, the `TokenManager` can be upgraded.
- When registering a canonical token, only the `TokenManager` is associated with the token.
- `InterchainTokenDeployer.sol` `deployedAddress` is not supported, since HTS tokens don't have deterministic addresses.
- `interchainTokenAddress` was removed from `InterchainTokenService.sol`, since HTS tokens don't have deterministic addresses. `registeredTokenAddress` should be used instead.
- `transmitInterchainTransfer` was removed from `InterchainTokenService.sol` since it's meant to be called from an `InterchainToken` contract, which is not used.
- When creating a new interchain token, `InterchainTokenService` and `TokenManager` are associated with the token.
- `initialSupply` isn't supported when deploying a new interchain token. To receive tokens, an account needs to previously associate with the token, thus it cannot immediately receive tokens after creation.
- Both HTS tokens and ERC20 tokens are supported for registration.

Commit message:

add todo note about auto associations

contracts/hedera/README.md, after:

# Hedera ITS Support

## Overview

ITS contracts in this repo are modified to support Hedera Token Service. All new Interchain Token will be created via HTS, while existing HTS and ERC20 tokens are supported for registration.

New HTS Interchain Tokens will have their Token Manager as the sole Supply Key ("MinterBurner" equivalent in Hedera) and Treasury (the contract that gets the newly minted coins). After minting, the Treasury transfers the tokens to the designated account. Before burning, the tokens are transfered back to the Treasury. Token Managers use typical `allowance` and `transferFrom` to move tokens before burning. Token Manager keeps track of minters and allows for external minting and burning (see `Minter.sol`). Certain ITS features are not supported due to HTS limitations, such as deploying a new Interchain Token with initial supply.

Since the `createFungibleToken` precompile in Hedera requires a fee to be sent as value, an `WHBAR` contract (`WETH` equivalent) is used to hold the HBAR used for token creation. `InterchainTokenService` transfers certain amount of `WHBAR` to the newly deploying `TokenManagerProxy` contract. The `TokenManagerProxy` contract, during constructor, withdraws HBAR from `WHBAR`, and sends it to `InterchainTokenDeployer`, which finally uses it to pay for the token creation.

The responsibility of keeping ITS funded on the WHBAR contract lies with the deployer, it is assumed that a top-up mechanism is in place to ensure the contract has enough WHBAR to create new tokens.

![Deploy New Interchain Token Flow](./diagrams/deploy_interchain_token.png)

### Hedera-related Notes

- Hedera contract and token "rent" and "expiry" are disabled on Hedera and not supported in this implementation.
- `IERC20` standard methods are supported, including `allowance` and `approve`. See [hip-218](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-218) and [hip-376](https://hips.hedera.com/hip/hip-376). `mint` and `burn` are not supported.
- Unlike an EVM token, the [maximum supply for an HTS token is 2^63](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/token-service/define-a-token#token-properties). There's planned support for decimal translation in ITS.
- HTS tokens with the following keys are not supported by ITS: `kycKey`, `wipeKey`, `freezeKey`, `pauseKey`. `adminKey` can update existing keys, but cannot add new keys if they were not set during the creation of the token ([see here](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/token-service/update-a-token)).
- `HTS.sol` library is a subset of the Hedera provided system library [HederaTokenService](https://github.com/hashgraph/hedera-smart-contracts/blob/bc3a549c0ca062c51b0045fd1916fdaa0558a360/contracts/system-contracts/hedera-token-service/HederaTokenService.sol). Functions are modified to revert instead of returning response codes.
- Currently new tokens created via HTS EVM system contract can have **only one** Supply Key (Minter).
- Currently new tokens created via HTS EVM system contract must have the Treasury be the creator of the token.
- `createFungibleToken` in `HTS.sol` uses `msg.value` to pay for token creation, alongside regular gas fee.
- `WHBAR` contracts used can be found [here](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/core-concepts/smart-contracts/wrapped-hbar-whbar#contract-deployments).

### ITS-related Notes

- `MINT_BURN` and `MINT_BURN_FROM` Token Manager types are currently unsupported, due to missing support of transferring the Treasury role. If this gets supported in the future, the `TokenManager` can be upgraded.
- When registering a canonical token, only the `TokenManager` is associated with the token.
- `InterchainTokenDeployer.sol` `deployedAddress` is not supported, since HTS tokens don't have deterministic addresses.
- `interchainTokenAddress` was removed from `InterchainTokenService.sol`, since HTS tokens don't have deterministic addresses. `registeredTokenAddress` should be used instead.
- `transmitInterchainTransfer` was removed from `InterchainTokenService.sol` since it's meant to be called from an `InterchainToken` contract, which is not used.
- When creating a new interchain token, `InterchainTokenService` and `TokenManager` are associated with the token.
- `initialSupply` isn't supported when deploying a new interchain token. To receive tokens, an account needs to previously associate with the token, thus it cannot immediately receive tokens after creation. (TODO explain why auto associations aren't used.)
- Both HTS tokens and ERC20 tokens are supported for registration.
